Dear All,

Vimal Mathew, PhD candidate from University of Massachusetts, Amherst, will
be giving a talk tomorrow on Energy Efficient Algorithms for Internet Scale
Distributed Systems. The talk is in BSB 361, at 2 p.m. Vimal is finished
his MS in our Department in 2008. All are welcome.

Regards
Ravi.

Title : Energy efficient algorithms for internet scale distributed systems

Abstract:

Internet-scale distributed systems operate hundreds of thousands of servers
deployed in thousands of data center locations around the globe. Since the
energy costs of operating such a large IT infrastructure are a significant
fraction of the total operating costs, we argue for redesigning them to
incorporate energy optimization as a first-order principle. We focus on
Content Delivery Networks (CDNs) and demonstrate techniques to save energy
while meeting client-

perc
i
e


ved service level agreements (SLAs) and minimizing impact on hardware
reliability. We evaluate all our algorithms on production workloads from a
commercial content delivery network.

We first look at reducing energy usage by switching off idle servers in
individual data centers while maintaining high availability and limiting
server on-off transitions, presenting an optimal offline algorithm an a
novel online algorithm. Our results show that it is possible to
reduce the energy consumption of a CDN by 51% while ensuring a high level
of availability that meets customer SLA requirements and incurring an
average of one on-off transition per server per day. Further, we show that
keeping even 10% of the servers as hot spares helps absorb load spikes due
to global flash crowds and minimize any impact on availability SLAs.

Next we look at energy cost reduction by deferring elastic loads to time
periods when energy is charged at lower rates. Under realistic energy
contracts we show our optimal offline algorithm can achieve 12% energy
savings for time-of-use energy pricing, even when only 40% of the load is
elastic and the service delay SLA is
a
t
 
most 6 hours. The savings increase to 32% under peak-based demand pricing
and to 23% under a combination of time-of-use and demand pricing. Further,
we show that almost all the energy cost savings can be achieved with no
increase in the bandwidth cost.
