Dear All,

Arun Iyer from Yahoo! labs will be giving a talk on "Class Ratio
Estimation" in the CSE Department Seminar hall (BSB 361) at 10 a.m.,
tomorrow (Tuesday). Part of this work was recently presented at ICML 2014.
All are welcome.

Regards
Ravi.

Title: Maximum mean discrepancy for class ratio estimation: Convergence
bounds and kernel selection

Abstract:
In recent times, many real world applications have emerged that require
estimates of class ratios in an unlabeled instance collection as opposed to
labels of individual instances in the collection. In this talk, I will
first explain the problem of class ratio estimation with a motivating
example. Then I would present how we can use maximum mean discrepancy (MMD)
in a reproducing kernel Hilbert space (RKHS) for estimating such ratios.
While producing an estimator is good, it is always better to provide some
consistency results. To that end, I will present a theoretical analysis of
the MMD-based estimator by pointing out some of the key steps in the proof
and also, the implication of the obtained result. Next, I will show how we
use the insights obtained from the theoretical analysis, to propose a novel
convex formulation that automatically learns the kernel to be employed in
the MMD-based estimation. I will briefly present the idea behind cutting
plane algorithm that we use for solving this formulation. Finally, I will
end the talk with an empirical comparison of our estimator with several
existing methods.

Bio:
Arun Iyer is currently a Research Scholar at Yahoo! Labs, Bangalore and
also in a Yahoo! sponsored PhD program at IIT Bombay working with Prof.
Sunita Sarawagi and Dr. Francesco Bonchi. Prior to joining for his PhD
program, he was working at Yahoo! Labs, Bangalore as a Research Engineer.
His current research interests is on modelling aggregates of response
variables on instance collections and various applications of these
estimators.
