Dear All,

Please find below the details of a department seminar scheduled on Jun 5th.

------------------------------------------------------
*Title *: The Maximum Clique Problem in Multiple Interval Graphs
*Speaker *: Dr. Mathew C. Francis (http://www.imsc.res.in/~mathew/)
*Affiliation* : The Institute of Mathematical Sciences (IMSc), Chennai.
*Day, Date & Time* : Wed, Jun 5, 2013, 2:30pm
*Venue* : BSB 361 seminar hall.
------------------------------------------------------
*Abstract* : A simple, finite, undirected graph is said to be an "interval
graph" if each vertex of it can be assigned an interval on the real line in
such a way that two vertices are adjacent in the graph if and only if the
intervals assigned to them intersect. Interval graphs have been studied
extensively because of their many practical applications and also because
most natural graph problems, even those that are hard to solve on general
graphs, can be easily solved on interval graphs.

We look at a generalization of interval graphs, called multiple interval
graphs, that are useful in DNA sequencing and processor scheduling. Here,
instead of a single interval, each vertex can be assigned a set of
intervals on the real line. A graph is called a "t-interval graph" if each
vertex of the graph can be assigned a set of t intervals such that two
vertices u and v of the graph are adjacent if and only if some interval
assigned to u intersects some interval assigned to v. A variant of this,
when there are t different real lines and exactly one interval from each
real line is assigned to each vertex, is the class of "t-track" graphs.

The MAXIMUM CLIQUE problem, or the problem of finding the size of the
maximum clique in an input graph, is known to be hard for general graphs.
In fact, for general graphs, there exists no polynomial-time approximation
algorithm for the problem with an approximation factor O(n^{1-\epsilon})
for any \epsilon>0, unless P=NP. We shall discuss new results about the
complexity of the MAXIMUM CLIQUE problem when the input graph is restricted
to be a t-interval or t-track graph.
------------------------------------------------------
*Speaker Bio* : Dr. Mathew C. Francis (http://www.imsc.res.in/~mathew/) is
currently a postdoc at Institute of Mathematical Science (IMSc) Chennai.
Prior to that, he held postdoc positions at Charles University(Prague),
University of Toronto, Simon Fraser University, and The Montpellier
Laboratory of Informatics, Robotics and Microelectronics (LIRMM, University
of Montpellier 2, France).
He obtained his PhD from Indian Institute of Science(IISc) Bangalore in
2010.
------------------------------------------------------


Best regards,
Jayalal
