Hi All,

I am giving my M.S Seminar talk on 15th May. The details of the talk are
given below.

All are cordially invited.

Thanks,
Nihar

------------------------------
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Title: *Image classification and annotation using deep learning models*

Date:* 15th May, 2014*

Time: *03:00 pm - 04:00 pm*

Venue:
*BSB 361*

More details about the talk are given below.

*Abstract:*

The performance of a machine learning algorithm largely depends on the
representation
of data. Domain and task independent techniques that can learn powerful
representations
from raw data are very useful for several tasks. Deep learning methods have
the ability
to learn increasingly abstract feature hierarchies by employing
multi-layered hierarchical
models. Interest in this area has led to design of models with many hidden
layers of
processing between the input and output layers. Though it is possible to
add more number
of hidden layers in conventional models like artificial neural networks, it
poses a serious
challenge to be able to train such models effectively. Models like deep
belief networks
try to overcome this problem by independently training the layers before
stacking them
together. The layer-wise training helps to get a good estimate of the layer
weights and
makes it easier for the complete network to be trained using conventional
algorithms like
back-propagation. Deep Boltzmann machines use variational techniques like
mean field
approximation to learn an approximate posterior of the data, which can then
be combined
with the input during back-propagation to learn better features. Deep
convolutional
networks convolve local features before passing them as input to a
multi-layered network
in an attempt to learn richer representations, which preserve the local
correlation of the
input data. Tensor deep stacking networks and kernel deep convex networks,
attempt
to reduce the training time using convex optimization and kernel trick. We
explore the
deep learning models for image classification and image annotation tasks.
We study the
performance of different models of deep learning on benchmark datasets. An
analysis of
representations learnt by different models of deep learning is carried out.

*Keywords:*

*Representation Learning, Deep Learning, Deep Belief Networks, Deep
BoltzmannMachines, Deep Convolutional Network, Tensor Deep Stacking
Network, Kernel Deep Convex Network, Image Classification, Image Annotation*
